[insects chirping]
[Brister] Hm.
Return fire! Return fire!
You got us ambushed,
you goddamn sharecropping son of a--
Get your ass down, Von!
I always knew I'd rue the goddamn day
I'd take orders from a black bast--
-I said, stand down!
-[gunshot]
[groaning]
[panting]
Shit.
[grunts]
Closer.
This is all your fault, boy.
[gasps]
What you doing to me? Where am I?
What the hell is she doing to me, Mexico?
What the hell are we gonna do now?
[sighs] Going to the police is out.
They have their own mierda to deal with.
No time for ours.
Hey, tú, you have anything to say?
[scoffs] Typical.
Chihuahua. You always win.
Come on. Second chances, OK?
It's not fair! You've got dead eyes!
[gasps] Oh, God.
It was his diary.
His story.
Now it's gone.
We need to know who killed Chiu.
But not for revenge.
To bring them to justice, and because...
[sighs]
...I'm starting to think
they might be after us, too.
Why?
What did we ever do to anyone?
[Isabela] Hm.
It's not what we did.
It's what Chiu might have done.
Remember, after that thing killed him,
its friends came for us.
His journal could have told us something,
but now...
We still have one clue.
[footsteps]
No toques eso.
She says not to touch those.
Don't tú touch my things.
Yes'm. Hands where you can see them.
This your idea of police work?
You and Mama Cass here drawing down
some phony-baloney brown magic,
feeding me 'shrooms?
They are the little children.
The little saints.
They talk to God.
Uh-huh.
He talk back?
Mm-hm, if you have ears to listen.
Oh, I got ears to listen.
[gasps] How are you doing that?
Garabina, please.
These things that came into San Simon,
these-these men, these monsters,
where did they come from?
Who made them?
I cannot know without some um...
Oh, shit. Here it comes.
How you say uh...?
She wants money.
...evidence!
Lie down, mi'ja.
I will ask the little children.
Your turn to get witchy, woman.
[cries out]
[panting]
Damn, mama!
You win!
We cool!
Open the door, I say.
Open the window, I say.
Open the sky, I say.
Open the floor, I say.
How can you see me?
[gasps]
What is it? What did you see?
[shudders]
It is not what I saw, mi'ja...
but what saw me.
[scoffs] A broom?
Damn! She got you--
Oh! Sorry. Sorry!
It will protect you.
Take them and get out.
[church bell ringing]
[organ playing]
In the name of the Father, Son,
and the Holy Spirit.
Our little town
has been rocked by tragedy.
-[door opens]
-The devil wants us to fall into despair.
[door shuts]
But in the midst of death, there is life.
And in the midst of life,
there is hope.
The twelfth psalm del Rey Davíd tells us:
"The poor are plundered,
the needy groan.
The Lord says,
'I will arise and protect my people,
keep the needy safe
and protect them from the wicked.
As the shepherd protects his flock,
so I still protect you.'"
Body of Christ.
The body of Christ.
[chuckles]
Oh, it is a day of miracles
when I receive
three young friends at my church
for the first time in...
Hm.
How long has it been, Jesus?
Long time.
I was a boy.
And how is your old teacher?
[Isabela sighs]
-What is it, mi'ja?
-[glass tapping]
Jesus, what have you got there?
There. Put it there.
Now, tell me where you found this.
The thing that killed our teacher,
and all those other people,
left this behind in our garden.
Left it behind?
It's the only thing we found,
besides our Sifu's body.
Yeah, it was crawling around
like a little worm.
I trapped it in the bottle
like a uh... a worm.
So the old man, Mr. Chiu, is dead?
Y-Yeah.
Has anyone else seen this?
No.
We need to know
who sent that thing here, and why.
We went to the police,
but they didn't seem to care.
I was not sure coming here was
the right thing to do, but Jesus...
You could uh, you know, like uh,
use your Catholic powers to...
know some shit about it?
Like, you...
Stuff. Not shit.
Sorry, Padre.
[clears throat]
Let us pray.
Lord, we ask you to rise up
and protect your people as you promised.
Keep the needy safe
and guard them from the wicked.
En el nombre del Padre,
del Hijo y del Espíritu Santo.
Who sent you?
Vade retro, Satanas!
In the name of God, I cast you out,
unholy demon!
No, don't hurt it! We need it!
[Jesus grunting]
[Isabela] No!
Salvame, Dios!
[sighs and exhales]
Hold it there!
OK.
[Isabela groans]
Now we'll never know who killed Sifu.
What did you see back there?
I saw shit I only ever see
in my nightmares.
Stuff that happened back in Vietnam.
You wouldn't understand.
What do gringos say? Try for me?
Back where I come from,
time and place was,
white folk didn't take kindly to having
a black man holding power over them, dig?
"Take kindly" means what?
White folk didn't like having
a colored man for a boss.
You were a boss in Vietnam?
Sergeant to a bunch of cracker privates.
Sure, you fought, bled and died
same as any white man in the jungle,
but when you came home,
you were just another negro
with about as much authority
as a glass of river-water lemonade.
-I'll put it to you another way.
-I get it.
It's the same for me.
The hell it is.
Try being a policewoman.
First in my class,
only one in the district.
Walk a mile in my shoes, then we can talk.
I seen your feet.
You got some big-ass feet.
[chuckles] Pendejo.
Hey.
I didn't mean nothing
by that "brown magic" crack.
Lord knows we got voodoo
up in my family tree,
all the way down to
the John the Conqueror roots.
The man we're going to see
knows all about roots, and magic.
Sit and eat, my friends.
Dear Lord,
bless this fruit of your bounty,
and bless our young friends
who have come here in their hour of need,
that we may provide them
some small comfort
in Jesus' name.
Amen.
You were right to come to me, Isabela.
Was I, Padre?
I hoped you would have answers.
Now I don't know if we will ever know
what any of it means.
It means you must embrace Christ,
embrace the light.
There is no comfort in darkness.
Perhaps your Mr. Chiu stepped too close
to the darkness and was burned.
Sifu always said there is a balance
between light and darkness.
You cannot have one without the other.
He was wrong.
Darkness is a wolf,
swallowing the light.
It must be slain.
Hearing this, it makes me wonder,
what kind of darkness did he let in
to balance out the light?
I offer you sanctuary, my friends.
You'll stay with us tonight,
and in the morning,
we will find a way
to walk together in the light,
towards the knowledge that you seek.
Yes?
[sighs] Yes.
Thank you, Padre.
[news anchor speaking in Spanish]
[studio audience laughing]
[Spanish dialogue continues]
[crackling]
[woman screaming on TV]
[speaking in Spanish]
[Garabina groans]
[studio audience laughing]
[crackling]
[power whirring]
Aye.
Bien hecho, Baldemar.
We will do such wonderful things together.
[gasps]
Baldemar.
[woman] Do it for us, Baldemar.
[woman] Bien hecho...
little Orphan Maker.
Shh.
[whispering] Silencio.
Open the window, I say.
Open the sky, I say.
Open the floor, I say.
[woman] I'm rotting.
Baldemar, only you can save me.
No!
Y-You were to heal me, not enslave me!
I can do both, Mother.
[Baldemar's mother]
Don't leave me here! No!
[muffled yelling] Baldemar, no!
Open the window, I say.
-Open the sky, I say.
-[Baldemar's mother weeping]
Open the floor, I say.
[TV static crackling]
Por Dios.
What happened here?
[gasps]
You OK?
Let's go home to San Simon.
-There's nothing for us here.
-[door slams]
Oh, I'm already gone.
Hey, you awake?
Tap once for yes and twice for no.
[taps twice]
[sighs]
I keep thinking,
what would Chiu want us to do, you know?
And then I-I tell myself,
he would want us to stick together,
to figure it out together,
because we are a family.
Right?
[taps once]
Good night, little brother.
Oh!
Oh, e-excuse me.
Sorry. Just trying to find the toilet.
Whoa! [chuckles]
Hello?
Just looking for a place to uh...
[groans] I got to go real bad.
Oh, really ba--
[whimpers]
[Serrano] Let us pray.
Lord God, Almighty.
As we follow your command to be shepherds,
we know that there are wolves
who would ravage our flock.
San Simon is at peace
because we remain strong.
We do evil
so that those over whom we watch
can be good.
[gasps]
Hijo de la chingada.
[whispers] Wake up!
I know who killed Sifu.
[Serrano] We are the light...
dim though we may be.
My God.
It's true.
Kill them!
[gunfire]
[gasps]
[gunfire continues]
[priest cries out]
[grunts]
[muffled gunfire]
What the...?
[grunts]
[gasps]
Holy shit.
[Isabela] No!
Silencio, wait!
Be the gentle rain,
not the angry wave.
Chiu would not want this.
No!
If you do this...
You have no idea
what you'll let loose in this town.
Hands in the goddamn air!
Garcia! You OK?
[Garcia grunts]
Isabela...
what have you done?